The last session that we're
going to talk about today and
we're not going to do an exercise on it
just because Pinterest does not open this
up to everyone by default.
You have to ask for
your domain to be whitelisted to
use any of their rich cards, right?
Which is their equivalent of the Open
Graph cards and the Twitter cards.
I've heard that it takes
about three business days.
And I don't think that
they scrutinize heavily.
They just wanna know that you're
an established business and
that it's not just junk that
you're throwing up there to try
to add more data to the Pinterest domain.
Sometimes people try to use metadata like
this, like what we're going to show you,
as a way of building more links
that refer back to other sites.
So this is why sites tend to want to
request a validation step there so
that at least they can make sure
that you're a reputable site.
But it's not like your business
has to be big enough to
get special accommodation
from Pinterest here.
It's like a legitimacy check.
And that's it.
So the first type of special Pinterest
card that we get is an article and
there's nothing too interesting about
this except you get a read it button.
And it indicates next to CNN, CNN's little
logo down there,
that this is a CNN article.
Otherwise, it's just the typical
picture card that you get.
One of their more popular cards, and
this is one that's live today, and
very oriented towards Pinterest, right?
Is recipe cards.
So here we get a picture on the top, and
if we scroll all the way to the bottom,
you see that you can provide some really
complicated metadata at the bottom.
It's not trivial to get
all of this straight,
broken out into sections with
the correct names and things.
But ultimately, you end up making
a list of ingredients, right?
And here you even have like a gluten
free indication next to this recipe.
And so this is great because it enriches
this pin with this extra information.
And if you had a collection of recipes,
it's right there at the users fingertips.
I didn't plan this out in advance,
but if we had a movie card here, so
this was removed in January of 2017,
it was available until then.
So this is what an IMDB
card might look like.
And I apologize to the people in the room,
it might be difficult to see.
But at least you can see it's PG 13,
there's its rating on IMDB.
People online and
on the video can see that there
is a listing of the director and
all of the actors that are in this movie.
So it's sort of the highest
level of metadata
that you might care about if
you were looking at this movie.
And then finally, we have the place pin,
which was one of the more popular pins.
It was also removed in a UI
refresh this January, but
word has it, it may come back.
I don't have authoritative information
on that topic, but I would still advise.
If Pinterest is an important platform for
your business,
don't assume that this is gone forever.
They're still advising that people put
this place-based metadata in there.
Here's an example of how you
might build this metadata.
It's just another set of meta tags.
One difference here compared to
what we've been working with so
far today,
is that you see the property names.
Those are not fixed.
They have been with Twitter cards and
with the Open Graph tags.
And the reason here is because
Pinterest is looking for
an additional level of richness.
You might be able to define multiple
different entities in terms of metadata
on the same HTML document.
So that's what they're giving
themselves the flexibility for.
And I don't know if that is to build for
the future or what.
But that would be the reason
to make these property keys,
the names of the properties dynamic.
And with that, that rounds out
our talk about social metadata.